# What Are Good DayZ Map Frame Values?

## Intro

Welcome to the wonderful world of DayZ map making. You like many others are taking your first steps on a long journey that begins with pain and suffering but ends with a sense of accomplishment and progression.

## Prerequisites

We could spend hours talking about map making so for this video I will focus mostly on summarizing the excellent [Mapframe Information](https://github.com/pennyworth12345/A3_MMSI/wiki/Mapframe-Information) content provided by `pennyworth12345` and how the Mapframe values relate to one another. If you are watching purely for educational purposes there are no prerequisites to follow along. If you want to be more hands on there are a few prerequisites

- `DayZ` installed
- `DayZ Tools` installed
- Extracted game data into `P:\`
- [Mikero's Tools](https://www.mikero.tools/) - All-in-One Installer downloaded and installed. (Do not install as administrator)
- Heightmap - (Generated by any of your favorite tools; GQIS and L3DT are popular with their respective pro's and con's)
- Satellite Map
- Mask
- Source folder in `P:\` - Use this video to "learn the basics" [Gramps 2 hour map guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KgE25NZ0lc)

## The Height Map

The height map is a way to store 2D color (x,y) information such that it can be computed into 3D height information. Like [Pennyworth](https://github.com/pennyworth12345/A3_MMSI/wiki/Mapframe-Information#cell-size) explains, the 2D image fits into a simple grid with x (`width`) and y (`length`). When we pick any x AND y, trace the coordinates to their location, we find a value. This value represents the "raw" height value before the terrain is built and convert into meters. When you generate a height map you do so at a specific resolution. This resolution is important because it forces downstream decisions due to its relationship with the other mapframe properties.

## Grid, Cell & Terrain Size

The resolution of your height map is the value you will select for `Grid Size`(px). The reason I stress the importance of the height map resolution is because it is closely linked with the desired cell size. Why? you might ask, Grid size multiplied by cell size is equal to terrain size. Knowing that cell size effectively sets the terrain size based on a height map, we can make educated performance decisions about the size of a cell.

```
Grid Size * Cell Size = Terrain Size
```

`Why do we care about the cell size?`

The cell size determines the distance between two height map points. Smaller values create more `detail` in height maps with variable heights and larger values `smooths` the terrain because there is more distance between the points. [Pennyworth](https://github.com/pennyworth12345/A3_MMSI/wiki/Mapframe-Information#cell-size) accurately lays out the thought process after hearing this--

`"Well then why don't I use the lowest cell size I can?"`

We are trying to strike a balance between performance and quality. It makes little sense to have a small cell size on a mostly flat terrain since there is no real need to display detail between height map points with little difference. It also makes no sense to have a mountainous terrain with a high cell size because the detail will be smoothed out over the distance. The best advice I can give is to experiment with multiple height maps and cell sizes until you find one that `feels` good.

Before jumping into some of the major roadblocks that can come out of improper mapframe values, we will quickly touch on how [Terrain Builder processes](https://github.com/pennyworth12345/A3_MMSI/wiki/Mapframe-Information#tiling-of-the-satellite-and-mask-images) the massive heightmap/satellite map/mask images into smaller tiles.

Tiling of Satellite and Mask Images

- general explanation of table and image in below link
- https://pmc.editing.wiki/doku.php?id=arma3:terrain:grid-cell-size

- why you will always have stretching ALWAYS
- best case scenario, estimated size = actual calculations with overlap and total tiles in row (universal stretching overlap/2)

- worst case scenario

- estimated size != actual calculations
- several examples of "bad" map frame values and why
- explain the calculations

land grid

- explain how to calculate the land grid
- explain why poor overlaps cause "terrain" not to render or be out of map

- Map frame properties Calculations

- review the properties
- explain how to calculate the tiles in row
- show excel with all values
  -- showcase divisible by 4 rule
  -- showcase texture layer being what helps reduce large overlaps

This brings us to several major issues that plague new and veteran map makers alike if we do not respect the relationship between the above numbers:

- Severe Satellite Map Stretching
- Incorrect Satellite Map Tiling
- Terrain being considered "out of map" and not rendering ground textures.
